# BUSINESS ANALYTICS
Business analytics involves the use of organization’s raw data to derive valuable insights for decision making. It enables organizations gain insights on business performance, and facilitate decision-making based on customer preferences, changing trends, and business performance, with the aim of avoiding costly risks and to increase revenue. The various business analytics include, marketing analytics, sales analytics, customer analytics, and operations analytics. In this project, the first three were performed based on the data made available by the organization. Operations analytics (which helps company improve their hiring process and retain talent) could not be performed due to unavailability of suitable data for the task. 
This project was focused on gaining insights on the different customer segments in the company, their product preferences, and the retention rate of customers by the company, with the aim of enabling the company to come up with effective strategies to retaining customers and thereby increasing revenue.
For this project; Jupyter notebook was used as the IDE of choice as it gives the opportunity to explain the steps carried out in detail for both technical and non-technical users to understand. Pandas library was used for data cleaning, wrangling, and overall preparation of the data for the task. Pandas library was also used for the data analytics. Seaborn library was used for data visualization.
# STEPS
The data to be used was imported into the current working directory as Pandas DataFrame. An overview of the data was carried out to gain insight on the nature of the raw data, including the data types, number of data entries in terms of rows and columns, the presence of missing values. After this, custom functions to be used for the downstream data analysis were created. Proper data cleaning was then performed to convert data types into the right data types, check for missing values, etc.
# FINDINGS/CONCLUSION
There was 55 unique customer number that was missing out of 536,350. The corresponding rows were dropped, as nothing could be done to retrieve these customer number that was missing. The customer number is the customer’s identification. Duplicate rows were detected, and there dropped. If left, they would give false results after analysis and this would negatively impact the business decision making.
After analysis, it was discovered that 1.6% of the total transactions got cancelled. Customer review data should be provided to gain insights on the reason why customers cancelled their orders, this is to prevent same even from re-occurring. The company received the most orders on Sundays as reflected by the order volume calculated. The most ordered product was paper craft little birdie, and it also in turn generated the most revenue for the company. Though it was the most ordered product, it was also received the most cancellation. Customer review data should be made available so facilitate further analysis as to why the order of this product got cancelled. The majority of the customers reside in the United Kingdom. 
10 customer segments were derived from the data on the basis of RFM metric, that is Recency, Frequency and Monetary Value of each customer. For each customer segment, sales analysis was performed and also product analysis was performed. Customer segmentation was done to facilitate targeted marketing campaign with the aim of customer retention. 
Customer retention rate analysis was done to gain insight on how well the business has done in retaining its customers over time. 
